# genderImbalanceInMovies
A part of final project for CS230: Data Structures. 

What does it take for a movie to be feminist?
Defining feminism in Hollywood 
Janice Preko, Moji Niyamanusorn, and Hana Nagata

This project serves to investigate and analyze the issue of gender imbalance in Hollywood movies. We will analyze these imbalances through quantitative tests using a feminist score which determines just how great the extents of these imbalances are in movies, or lack of.  The test for a feminist movie has been implemented as follows.
The feminist score combines several existing tests by reputable individuals in order to determine whether the movie is feminist – namely the Rees-Davies test, the Ko test, the Pierce test, and the Hagen test. Overall, the feminist score that we implement looks at the gender breakdowns behind the camera (Rees-Davies), the presence of a female protagonist (Pierce), the gender breakdown of the supporting cast (Hagen), and diversity in front of the camera (Ko).
The highest priority was given to the test that looked at gender behind the scenes, as we believe diversity behind the camera translates to women creating movies that include more women and represent in the best light. Although four different tests were included to create this feminist score, there were instances where the scores of different movies overlapped. To break these ties and to further look at how feminist these movies were, we created another criterion – one which looks at how many of the 13 tests the movie passed. The more tests passed, the higher their ranking in the feminist movie rank list would be. If there proved to still be further ties, then alphabetical order was used in giving priority to the movie.

The FiveThirtyEight article “Creating the New Bechdel Test” divided the Bechdel-alternative tests into four sub-categories. We felt that it was appropriate to select a test from each sub-category to be representative of what should be valued in the score. Four selected tests are the Rees-Davies test (tests that look behind the camera), the Ko test (tests that look beyond white women), the Pierce test (tests that look at female protagonists), and the Hagen test (tests that look at the supporting cast). To calculate the feminist score (feministScore() method), we weighed the score of each test based on each sub-category’s importance. The order is 1) tests that look behind the camera (+4 score), 2) tests that look at female protagonists (+3 score), 3) tests that look at the supporting cast (+2 score), and 4) tests that look at the supporting cast (+1 score). In feministScore(), if a movie passes a test, a score is added to the movie’s total feminist score. The higher the score, the more “feminist” the movie is. However, as many movies pass the same number of tests, the total number of tests (out of 13 tests) that it passed is added as a fifth criterion.
The rankMovies() method then ranks the score based on 4 criteria in the feministScore() method, using the compareTo() method we defined in Movie class. If two movies receive the same feminist score, the fifth criterion is used to break the tie (movies that pass more tests in total will therefore be ranked higher). The rankMovies() method returns PriorityQueue<Movie>, which uses LinkedMaxHeap to store data. Thus, the toString() method of PriorityQueue follows MaxHeap’s convention, returning elements in inorder traversal order. However, LinkedMaxHeap only ensures that the element at the root is the one with the highest priority, but not necessarily the ranking of the rest of the nodes.  For users to see an accurate ranking, they must use the dequeue() method until the PriorityQueue becomes empty. Every time the PriorityQueue got dequeued, the tree structure of LinkedMaxHeap reorganizes itself to ensure that the element at the root is always the highest priority (has the highest feminist score out of the movies left in the tree). 
If more movies were included in the data set, the solution would definitely change. The more movies there are, the higher chance that more movies will have the same score, even with the fifth criterion provided. More criteria should be added to increase the dispersion of the score. 

